---
title: New Journey Begins
---

As many of you know, a little over 3 weeks ago, I began my search for a
new career opportunity. Things always happen for a reason and I fully
embraced, with excitement, the search for my new workplace to call home.
This was definitely a time for me to really sit down and focus on what
my priorities and goals were in my search. I wanted to take my time and
explore every opportunity which presented itself to me. With an open
mind and eyes, I began my search, after a few days of updating my resume
and preparing myself for what would be coming for an undetermined amount
of time. And within just a few short days, I actually was presented with
what I felt was my dream job, but it seemed too good and too soon to be
true. On the other hand, I did not want to pass up on this opportunity,
so I fully engaged in the process with the company and it still seemed
too good to be true. I kept thinking, how could I have this plan with
intentions to take my time searching and finding my dream job, and this
opportunity seemed like the perfect choice. So, I continued with more
conversations and research, into additional companies and opportunities.
I remained persistent in my goals and had my plan together, which
usually included several interviews per day and several job submissions
per night. However, as I continued on this journey all things continued
to point me back to the opportunity which seemed to be too good to be
true.

So with this and great pleasure, I am announcing that I am joining
[Verizon Telematics](https://www.verizontelematics.com/) as a DevOps
Engineer. We will be doing some amazing things around micro-services and
so much more. So do expect to see some pretty amazing posts coming in
the future. We will definitely be implementing some bleeding-edge
solutions. And I will finally be able to leverage all of the skills that
I have gained over the past 2+ years as well as gaining an amazing
amount of knowledge going forward.

I also want to thank everyone who reached out to me, put me in contact
with someone, and overall shared with me some amazing opportunities
available. It is truly amazing how humbling and caring our community is.
I can definitely say I always knew how amazing it was but to see it and
feel it at this level and first-hand was unreal to me. So thank you very
much to everyone!

So let my new journey begin and I look forward to sharing some amazingly
great things with all of you in the future.
