---
  title: VMworld 2012 Day 3
  date: 2012-08-30 00:59:43
---

Today was a little more laid back for me. I attended several sessions
today. Went to NF-BCO2807 --- vSphere HA and Datastore Access Outages --
Current-Capabilities Deep-Dive and Tech, NF-BCO1883 --- Deploying an
Active/Active Datacenter with SRM 5, SPO3284 --- Disaster Avoidance for
Mission Critical Applications using Metro vMotion and NF-BCO2147 ---
VMware vCenter Site Recovery Manager -- What's New and Technical
Overview. As always good information. Spent a good hour or so just
walking around the exhibitors hall and talking to different companies.
And stopped by to talk to the guys at CloudPhysics again, while there I
had the privilege to talk to Duncan Epping and Frank Denneman, very cool
dudes and obviously brilliant. Keep an eye for the guys at CloudPhysics
for sure as I said last night. Also had some good conversation with IBM
around PureSystems, I definitely want to look into this further, maybe
our PureSystem playground will show up soon. :) I also signed up to be a
VMUG member and look forward to start attending the VMUG's in Atlanta.
After that I had many good conversations over at Chipotle with several
different guys, and as always I am glad to be able to share my
experiences over the years to those that maybe not as far along in the
virtual world. Then it was onto the VMworld Party with Morning Glory and
Bon Jovi, Morning Glory was very good and sounded great, Jon Bon Jovi on
the other hand, I was never a Bon Jovi fan and have to say I am still
not. But hey free entertainment.

Here are some pics of CloudPhysics with Duncan Epping and Frank
Denneman. Enjoy.
