---
  title: VMworld 2012 Day 2
  date: 2012-08-28 23:44:39
---

Day started off with another great keynote. I really liked the 4 minute
challenge for each company to talk about new things they are working on.
I thought the HP presentation was the best. Then Chad from EMC did a
great job too on the backup solution integration, but he ran over 4
minutes, to be expected I guess. I then sat in on the vMSC session with
Duncan Epping. What do you expect other than it was great stuff. This
guy is a pure genius. I immediately left there and bought his and Frank
Denneman's new vSphere 5.1 clustering deepdive book. Cannot wait to
read it and give feedback on that. I then went onto do some labs. I did
the SRM HOL. It was a good lab. Seems the labs were a little slow, but
it was just fine. Enough to look forward to doing some more POC testing
and then get busy on getting this solution together. I plan on hitting
the HOL again tomorrow and Thursday. I then spent a good amount of time
talking to some of the VMware folks at the VMware booth. I was able to
get some good conversations around PCI compliancy using vShield and
vSphere VCM. Cannot wait to get into some good discussions on this. Flat
networks for all internal networks, DMZ and PCI segments using this as a
solution to fence in vm communications. I had tried vShield a few years
ago and didn't care much for the interface, but plan on checking this
stuff out again. I then spoke to another VMware person and had great
conversation with him on autodeploy, which uses PXE boot and host
templates to deploy your ESXi hosts. I definitely will be doing some
more testing on this and doing some write-ups on this. This lead into a
few good side conversations with other engineers that were listening in
and we were able to go over some similar setups and theories of how to
do many different things now and going forward to the future. I again
spread the work about [Nexenta](http://www.nexenta.com) for a NAS
solution. I cannot say enough about them. Also look at the community
edition [Nexentastor CE](http://www.nexentastor.org), which allows for
18TB of usable storage for you to get a POC together and then you can
upgrade to the Enterprise edition when you are ready. And then I had a
great time speaking with the guys from
[CloudPhysics](http://www.cloudphysics.com/). If you have not checked
them out I highly recommend it. I spoke with several of the guys and
they are brilliant. What a great view on how things should be heading in
a virtualization world. I started using their cloudphysics app last week
and it is still in beta, but there are some great things in the future
for them. Several of them are former VMware guys and there are only 12
of them currently working for the company. I cannot wait to get back and
do some more testing and provide much more feedback and submit some more
vCards. Go check them out at the FusionIO booth.
